manuscript/foreword.md, before:

# {{ book.chapters.foreword }}

### Final Wordcount

This book was originally inspired by @NaNoWriMo, but took on a life of its own when compared against how much sheer **knowledge** needing to be imparted exists. Drupal has a long, rich, and vibrant history. Writing anything less than a long, rich, and vibrant introductional guide does it no justice.

Despite goals, notes, and two half-compositions notebooks worth of research, tutorial addresses, video feeds, and software crash-testing, the final wordcount on 11/30/2015 at 11:59pm was only 6,259 words. Considering my other book is pushing 30,000 words (though unpublished), I am satisfied with this.

## Foreword

As opposed to the books referenced below \(which should be read extensively\) the aim of the n00b's guide is to cultivate aspiring Web Developers, Administrators and Site Builders through a carefully aligned journey.

By happy coincidence, the journey \(roughly\) matches the Core Competencies as detailed by Acquia's Drupal Certification Study Guides.

# Other Resources

The Documentation has useful gems:
 + [d.o | Drupal 7 - The Essentials](https://www.drupal.org/documentation/the-essentials-7 "Drupal 7 Essentials")
  - This lovely gem was added via the Creative Commons license to drupal.org in May 2012. For Developers transferring their current knowledge-base into Drupal-Development, this book is amazing. Unfortunately, the book also makes a number of assumptions, such as Development being done in a Drupal 7 environment and Developers knowing *exactly* what they are doing like Code Ninjas for everything not directly Drupal.
 + [d.o | The Drupal Cookbook (for beginners)](https://www.drupal.org/documentation/customization/tutorials/beginners-cookbook "The Drupal Cookbook (for beginners)")
  - The Beginner's Guide was, at one point, a useful journey for Beginner and Novice level Administrators, Site Builders, DevOps, and SysOps for 'How to Start Drupal'. I \(the author\) actually contributed a number of pages to the build in 2011. As it is now, however...
 + [d.o | User Guide](https://www.drupal.org/project/user_guide "Drupal 8 User Guide")
  - [DRAFT User Guide](https://userguide-drupal.redesign.devdrupal.org/d8guide/en/index.html "DRAFT User Guide") - User/Pass: drupal/drupal - Currently in *very* draft status, the Drupal 8 User Guide aims to be a 'new and improved' version of the Drupal Documentation.
  - More information as it becomes available.

#### Note

This book is both a work-in-progress (WIP) and a research driven commitment to **Novice Level** Drupal, Front-End Development, Back-End Development, Ansible, VNWare, Drush, etc. knowledge aggregation.

It is not, and will never be, for example, [The Definitive Guide to Drupal 7](http://definitivedrupal.org/ "The Definitive Guide to Drupal 7: Configuration, Code, and Community"). I cheerfully take zero responsibility for faults or mistakes in this book and will just as cheerfully accept comments, Contribs, etc.

Commit message:

Changes for Monday night. Finished almost all of the Foreword.

manuscript/foreword.md, after:

# {{ book.chapters.foreword }}

> "If it isn't documented, it doesn't exist."

If there is nothing else this book may teach you, the reader, it is that documentation and a well-implemented version control system (VCS) are the two single-most vital pieces of any digital system. Computer, web, database, mainframe, legacy, it does not matter what the system is, or what the system is used for. As long as a solid VCS is in place (and instructions on how to use it while making it better), the system will continually improve because you, the user, can (and should) take the time to improve it.

Drupal is a fantastic Web 3.0 enabled platform that provide us with a highly RESTful API.

For those unsure of what REST might be, it is actually a fairly *simple* concept that tends to be horribly complicated when trying to read it out of a book. Because of its importance to this class however, I will provide a short definition here.

*Simplified* **REST** - Also known as **RE**presentational **S**tate **T**ransfer says that all networks, all databases, everything, should connect through *simple* methods, such as HTTP.

HTTP, as everyone knows, stands for **H**yper-**t**ext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol.

This means the **Internet**. The entire World Wide Web (WWW) is a giant network built using REST-based architecture.

We will get into more detail later, but the reason we have come as far as we have today is because **it was documented**, which means **it exists**. With each version, each release, each edit, and each person contributing to the world, the Internet got better and better until a man named Dries Buytaert created a dynamic forum platform that he called Drupal.

Welcome to your journey into Web Authoring with Drupal, a platform and community used by millions of people and tens of thousands of businesses the world over.

## Note

This book is was written with a focused committment on **Novice Level** Drupal. In Car Salesman terms, this woudl be a "Bumper to Bumper" book, but I prefer the Super Hero mentality: "From Zero to Hero".
