manuscript/introduction.md, before:

# {{ book.chapters.overview }}

After decades of growth as an industry, there are now many point-and-click web-based applications that remove the need for some (any in many cases *any*) HTML knowledge, CSS knowledge, Linux, servers, or databases. Hosting companies even provide the installation using a model called Software as a Service (SasS), where the hosting company not only hosts, but installs, configures, and updates all of the related software as well.

The software offered is as varied as the hosting companies. A new user could choose HostGator and Wordpress or GoDaddy and Drupal, both supporting point-click-install solutions, each with their own Pros and Cons for installation, cost, configuration, and Return on Investment (ROI). Unfortunately, for the new-coming consumer or aspiring Developer, there are literally dozens of Open Source and proprietary CMS applications for hundreds of different business needs and user needs.

So why, from all the options, should you choose Drupal?

Acquia, one of the largest Drupal companies in the world, put togther great list of ten reasons commonly used by the Drupal Community answering this question. Drupal is:

1 A platform for rapid website assembly
2 Enormously scalable
3 Freely extensible
4 Built for social publishing
5 Open to your branding
6 Flexible in deployment
7 Beloved by a thriving development community
8 Without softare acquisition or licencing costs (aka: it is free to use)
9 Fanatical about following standards
10 Proven high in security

It should be noted here that Drupal's fanatical approach to following standards means all standards important to modern web design, development, accessibility, and more.

The most popular themes, for example, all have a heavy focus on maintaining a mobile-first approach, a great User Experience (UI), and creating intuitive User Interfaces (UI). They do this without sacrificing a single iota of Accessibility needs for visual or hearing impaired users or Multilingual language support for non-English speaking users.

With thousands of code contributors making updates, changes, and security fixes to Drupal every day, you can be assured in choosing a well-supported (and well documented) web-application platform for creating your website.

Because Drupal is highly extensible and highly configurable, the best method for learning how to make a website with Drupal is a hands-on learning experience. Multile scenarios, from building a generic blog to creating a fully-featured online store where *you*, the Site Owner, can sell your own products (or services) should be explored to understand the powerful tools at your disposal. This book will teach the reader basic to intermediate Drupal knowledge with screenshots, example code, user-exercises, small quizzes, and meticulous walkthroughs.

By the end of this book, *you*, the Reader, will have created multiple Drupal websites using the most modern methods for efficiency, accessibility, and mobile-ready design.


Chapter 1:
  -- Creating an account on Drupal.org
    -- Consider joining the Drupal Association
  -- Creating an account at Pantheon.io
  -- Creating an account at GitHub.org

Commit message:

Changes before running off to chores.  Scaffolding is going well

manuscript/introduction.md, after:

# {{ book.chapters.introduction }}

After decades of growth as an industry, there are now many point-and-click web-based applications that remove the need for some (any in many cases *any*) HTML knowledge, CSS knowledge, Linux, servers, or databases. Hosting companies even provide the installation using a model called Software as a Service (SasS), where the hosting company not only hosts, but installs, configures, and updates all of the related software as well.

The software offered is as varied as the hosting companies. A new user could choose HostGator and Wordpress or GoDaddy and Drupal, both supporting point-click-install solutions, each with their own Pros and Cons for installation, cost, configuration, and Return on Investment (ROI). Unfortunately, for the new-coming consumer or aspiring Developer, there are literally dozens of Open Source and proprietary CMS applications for hundreds of different business needs and user needs.

So why, from all the options, should you choose Drupal?

Acquia, one of the largest Drupal companies in the world, put togther great list of ten reasons commonly used by the Drupal Community answering this question. Drupal is:

1 A platform for rapid website assembly
2 Enormously scalable
3 Freely extensible
4 Built for social publishing
5 Open to your branding
6 Flexible in deployment
7 Beloved by a thriving development community
8 Without softare acquisition or licencing costs (aka: it is free to use)
9 Fanatical about following standards
10 Proven high in security

It should be noted here that Drupal's fanatical approach to following standards means all standards important to modern web design, development, accessibility, and more.

The most popular themes, for example, all have a heavy focus on maintaining a mobile-first approach, a great User Experience (UI), and creating intuitive User Interfaces (UI). They do this without sacrificing a single iota of Accessibility needs for visual or hearing impaired users or Multilingual language support for non-English speaking users.

With thousands of code contributors making updates, changes, and security fixes to Drupal every day, you can be assured in choosing a well-supported (and well documented) web-application platform for creating your website.

Because Drupal is highly extensible and highly configurable, the best method for learning how to make a website with Drupal is a hands-on learning experience. Multile scenarios, from building a generic blog to creating a fully-featured online store where *you*, the Site Owner, can sell your own products (or services) should be explored to understand the powerful tools at your disposal. This book will teach the reader basic to intermediate Drupal knowledge with screenshots, example code, user-exercises, small quizzes, and meticulous walkthroughs.

By the end of this book, *you*, the Reader, will have created multiple Drupal websites using the most modern methods for efficiency, accessibility, and mobile-ready design. The book will take everything a step further by walking you through common tips and tricks for local development, Configuration Management (aka: making your local changes appear on the server), deployment (moving your local site to a Development Server and from Development to the Test Server, then the Live Server), and more.

Before using the most powerful _features_ of Drupal however, you must first gain access to some of the most powerful _tools_ for Drupal. See {{ book.introduction.early-development }} to learn about what accounts you should create before starting this journey.

Chapter 1:
  -- Creating an account on Drupal.org
    -- Consider joining the Drupal Association
  -- Creating an account at Pantheon.io
  -- Creating an account at GitHub.org
