manuscript/joining-drupal-org.md, before:

# Joining *Drupal.org*

![Druplicon](../images/general/drupal-logos/druplicon-small.png)

## Prerequisites

An email address for account verification.

## Goals

* Create an account at *Drupal.org*

## Creating a Drupal Community Account

#### Open any modern web-browser.
![Modern Browsers](../images/overview-&-development/github/modern-browsers.JPG)

#### Navigate to [Drupal.org](https://www.drupal.org "Drupal.org")
![Drupal.org Home](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_1.JPG)

#### Click [Log in / Register](https://www.drupal.org/user "Log in / Register")
![Log in / Register](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_2.JPG)

#### Click [Create new account](Create new account "Create new account")
![Create a new account](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_3.JPG)

#### Register for a New Account
![Create a new account](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_4.JPG)
> Be sure to read the [Terms of Service](https://register.drupal.org/terms "Terms of Service") and [Privacy Policy](https://register.drupal.org/privacy "Privacy Policy") before creating your account.

#### Complete your Registration
![Finish Registration](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_5.JPG)
> The information provided here need not be your real first and last name, but it is encouraged. 

> Be aware, everything you enter on this screen will be publically available information.

Commit message:

Finishing up Section for Joining Drupal.org.

manuscript/joining-drupal-org.md, after:

# Joining *Drupal.org*

![Druplicon](../images/general/drupal-logos/druplicon-small.png)

## Prerequisites

An email address for account verification.

## Goals

* Create an account at *Drupal.org*
* Verify created account via email

## Creating a Drupal Community Account

#### Open any modern web-browser.
![Modern Browsers](../images/overview-&-development/github/modern-browsers.JPG)

#### Navigate to [Drupal.org](https://www.drupal.org "Drupal.org")
![Drupal.org Home](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_1.JPG)

#### Click [Log in / Register](https://www.drupal.org/user "Log in / Register")
![Log in / Register](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_2.JPG)

#### Click [Create new account](Create new account "Create new account")
![Create a new account](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_3.JPG)

#### Register for a New Account
![Create a new account](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_4.JPG)
> Be sure to read the [Terms of Service](https://register.drupal.org/terms "Terms of Service") and [Privacy Policy](https://register.drupal.org/privacy "Privacy Policy") before creating your account.

#### Complete your Registration
![Finish Registration](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_5.JPG)
> The information provided here need not be your real first and last name, but it is encouraged.

> Be aware, everything you enter on this screen will be publically available information.

#### Check Your Email!!
![Verify Your Email](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_6.JPG)
> Your Account will not officially be created until you verify your email address.

#### Congratulations!!
![Congratulations](../images/overview-&-development/join-drupal/join-drupal_7.JPG)

## Further Reading
 * [Drupal Association](https://assoc.drupal.org "Drupal Association") - Known as the DA, the Drupal Association roots the heart and soul of the Drupal Community by fostering and supporting Drupal projects, marketing Drupal to new users, supporting Drupal infrastructure through events like DrupalCons & DrupalCamps, and a lot more!
